P8105 Final Project Proposal
================

### Group members (names and UNIs):

Dee Wang (dtw2127) <br/> Sandya Ganesh (sg3891) <br/> Shaina Mackin
(smm2350) <br/> Xin Fang (xf2226)

### Tentative project title:

Only Time Will Tell

### Motivation for this project:

COVID-19 has drastically impacted the ways in which we spend our time.
During the height of the pandemic, stay-at-home orders, lockdown
measures, and social distancing norms prevented many Americans from
going into workplaces and schools and from seeing friends and family,
impacting the way we spend our days. The motivation for this project is
to understand how COVID-19 has impacted the ways we spend our time. We
plan to look at how time spent on activities such as paid and unpaid
work, education, sleep, and leisure has changed from pre- to post-
pandemic and are interested in understanding how changes in time use
impact general well-being.

### Intended final products:

• A final report with details for how we completed the project,
including data collection and cleaning, exploratory analyses,
alternative strategies, descriptions of approaches, and a discussion of
results.
</p>
• A website that describes our motivation and background for the
analysis, process for cleaning. and analyzing the data, and various
visualizations.
</p>
• A screencast uploaded to YouTube that illustrates our project.
</p>

• A github repo with all of the codes for this project.

### Anticipated data sources:

Data for this project will come from the U.S. Bureau of Labor
Statistics’ American Time Use Survey (ATUS), which is publicly available
[here](https://www.bls.gov/tus/datafiles-2020.htm). Some key variables
include age, sex, race, education, marital status, occupation, time
spent doing different activities, and who was present during the
activity.

### Planned analyses / visualizations / coding challenges:

*Analyses will include:* <br/> • Regression analysis to investigate how
sociodemographic factors such as age, gender, education, occupation are
associated with time spent on enjoyable activities, time spent with
others, sleep.  
• Looking at differences in time use trends by geographies.

*Visualizations will include:* <br/> • Stacked bar chart comparing of
Investigation of time use on different activities pre- and post-pandemic
(2019 vs 2020) trends pre-pandemic. We will look at this at a national
level, and also look at comparisons across age, gender, race, education
and occupation. <br/> • Line graph showing average weekly time spent on
different activities such as sleep, work, leisure activities from
2013-2020. <br/> • Bar chart comparing: average weekly time spent doing
activities alone vs with others pre- and post- pandemic; average weekly
time spent doing less enjoyable activities (eg. work, study) vs leisure
activities pre- and post- pandemic.  
• Interactive plotly map of the U.S. showing average time spent on
leisure activities pre- and post-pandemic by geographic region.

*Anticipated coding challenges:* <br/> • How to address missing data,
incorrect coding of variables <br/> • Categorizing activities as leisure
vs. work as these aren’t given <br/> • Coding of variables switches from
2019 to 2020, so may need to recode some variables <br/> • Mapping
average time spent to geographic region

### Planned timeline:

*Nov 15-21:* Cleaning/merging datasets, operationalize categorization of
activities into leisure vs work, writing up motivation + related work +
initial question section <br/> *Nov 22-28:* Exploratory analysis,
creating data visualizations, writing up descriptions and findings <br/>
*Nov 29-Dec 5:* Regression analysis, writing up findings <br/> *Dec
6-11:* Finalize report, create website and screencast
